# Analyzing Energy Generated from Wind as a Result of Time of Day and Environmental Factors

    When my team initially discussed this project, we agreed to focus on a green energy source. After some initial research, we noticed that wind energy is often either overlooked or criticized as inefficient because turbines cannot convert wind into electricity at a 100% efficiency. Yet the amount of actual electricity a wind turbine can produce is never mentioned. We wanted to focus on the energy produced from wind turbines to dispell myths surrounding this green energy source. This project hoped to provide evidence supporting building more wind turbines to lessen our dependence on harmful energy sources wreaking havoc on our atmosphere.

  The goal of this project was to gather data on weather and determine how much power would be generated by a wind turbine from a variety of features. For our hypothesis test we specifically looked at whether the time of day (early morning, mid-morning, afternoon, or night) effected the amount of power generated and the results of our statistical tests provided evidence supporting a relationship between the two. We then used predictive supervised regression models to predict the amount of power generated based on our features. When evaluating our models, we found that linear regression, Ridge, and Lasso algorithms had the best performance and were the most effectivepredictive models.




The final write-up is in the file: Analyzing Energy Generated from Wind as a Result of Time of Day and Environmental Factors.ipynb

All of our raw work on transforming and performing the machine learning is in the file: final project data set and machine learning.ipynb

The statistical testing scripts are in the file: Wind Project ANOVA.ipynb

The raw dataset is in the file: weather_data.csv

The transformed dataset is in the file: Transformed_csv.csv

The webscraping script is in the file: Web Scraping for Wind Project.ipynb

The visualization scripts are in the file: Wind Project Visualizations.ipynb
And all of the actual visualizations are in the files labeled Wind Project Graphs!

